# Orderista: An AI Based Food Ordering Applicatiom

# Team Members
Tejas Raibagi (17104067), Ashwin Vishwakarma (17104009), Jahnavi Naik (17104046).

# Project Description
Orderista provides a complete digital solution for ordering food online across campus, improv- ing ordering and service time drastically. It provides systems to help Admins and Canteen owners to monitor their progress and sales and improve their service with the help of user feedback. The app also docks in AI services to provide curated menus based on user prefer- ence to help order food. Alongside personal recommendations, AI can also provide a weekly accurate menu that a client can follow for a variety of choices to enjoy over the week. The technology stack of choice is Flutter for front-end development, NodeJS, and PostgreSQL for the back-end. The stack was selected due to its efficiency in development and performance quality. Flutter helps to create stunning UIs for both iOS and Android via a single code base hence making the overall process simpler. NodeJS and PostgreSQL provide faster commu- nication and help retrieve data quicker and reduce the load on the server. Security is one of the aspects that was given utmost importance while creating the application. Upon Login JWT token is generated and is stored on the device. The token is useful to authenticate the user asynchronously when the user opens the app for the second time. This provides an immersive experience for the user. The JWT token can be only decrypted by the server to retrieve the data hence making the contents of the token secure. The flow of various entities is explained below.
User enters the credentials which are sent to the back-end where they are validated, and only upon their confirmation the user is allowed to use the features of the application. Once the user is logged in, the user can order food, add to favourites, manage order history. On clicking the heart button on each food item card an api call is initiated which adds the user favourites into the backend.
Food items added to cart are saved locally using provider for the current session and when the payment is approved another api is called and the order is saved in the database which can be later used by the canteen owner to confirm the order once the order is picked up.
